ADR Abstract Machines Names (#2965)
kyma-project/kyma-environment-broker: docs/contributor/adr/ADR-002-abstract-machines-names.md

      g2-standard-48: g2-standard-48 (4GPU, 48vCPU, 192GB RAM)*

      # New memory-intensive machine types
      m3-ultramem-32: m3-ultramem-32 (32vCPU, 976GB RAM)
      m3-ultramem-64: m3-ultramem-64 (64vCPU, 1,952GB RAM)

      # New storage-intensive machine types
      z3-highmem-14-standardlssd: z3-highmem-14-standardlssd (14vCPU, 112GB RAM)
      z3-highmem-44-standardlssd: z3-highmem-44-standardlssd (44vCPU, 352GB RAM)
```

## SAP Cloud Infrastructure

```yaml
providersConfiguration:
  sap-converged-cloud:
    machines:
      g_c2_m8: g_c2_m8 (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)
      g_c64_m256: g_c64_m256 (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)
```

## Alibaba Cloud

```yaml
providersConfiguration:
    alicloud:
      machines:
        "ecs.g9i.large": "ecs.g9i.large (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)"
        "ecs.g9i.16xlarge": "ecs.g9i.16xlarge (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)"
```

# Semi-Abstract Configuration

To simplify upgrades between instance generations, the configuration can be partially abstracted.
Instead of referencing full instance family names, a logical machine type is used. The actual family is then resolved through a mapping.

## AWS

```yaml
providersConfiguration:
  aws:
    machines:

>       mi.large: mi.large (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)

Author: Yes, we could deprecate **m5** and keep only **m6i** within the `m` family, but in this case we can’t support both at the same time.

      # New storage-intensive machine types
      storage-14: z3-highmem-14-standardlssd
      storage-44: z3-highmem-44-standardlssd
```

## SAP Cloud Infrastructure

```yaml
providersConfiguration:
  sap-converged-cloud:
    machines:
      general-2: general-2 (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)
      general-64: general-64 (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)

    machinesMapping:
      general-2: g_c2_m8
      general-64: g_c64_m256
```

## Alibaba Cloud

```yaml
providersConfiguration:
  alicloud:
    machines:
      general-2: "general-2 (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)"
      general-64: "general-64 (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)"

    machinesMapping:
      general-2: ecs.g9i.large
      general-64: ecs.g9i.16xlarge
```

## Resolution Logic

Instance types are resolved using a direct mapping between logical machine types and instance types.

The resolution process is:
1. Read the configured logical machine type (e.g., `general-2`).
2. Look up the corresponding instance type in `machinesMapping`.
3. Return the mapped instance type.

This approach completely decouples the logical machine definition from the instance family, making upgrades or replacements easier by modifying only the mapping.

# Comparison

> 

Reviewer: I really like the full abstraction as it makes the selection consistent across the provider, however, for GPU we will for sure support more types in future. Also think of ARM machines which we potentially support in future also for general purpose. So we need to stay flexible in supporting more types of a category

| Potential Issues | None identified.                                                                                                                      | **AWS:** Multiple general-purpose and GPU instance types<br>**Azure:** Multiple general machine types<br>Creating a consistent naming scheme will be challenging if not impossible. |

### JSON Schema

Below is the current AWS schema used in BTP Cockpit:

```json
{
  "machineType": {
    "_enumDisplayName": {
      "m6i.large": "m6i.large (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)",
      "m6i.16xlarge": "m6i.16xlarge (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)",
      "m5.large": "m5.large (2vCPU, 8GB RAM)",
      "m5.16xlarge": "m5.16xlarge (64vCPU, 256GB RAM)"
    },
    "description": "Specifies the type of the virtual machine.",
    "enum": [
      "m6i.large",
      "m6i.16xlarge",
      "m5.large",
      "m5.16xlarge"
    ],
    "type": "string"
  }
}
```

The JSON schema requires that the `machineType` value must be one of the entries defined in the enum list.
It does not allow values outside of this predefined set.

> If abstract machine types are introduced (e.g., `m.large`), the existing machine types must remain in the schema to maintain backward compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If abstract machine types are introduced (for example, `m.large`), the existing machine types must remain in the schema to maintain backward compatibility.
```
